README.md, before:

# xDRCal

This is a small .NET application to help check the black or white luminosity clipping points of an SDR or HDR monitor.

![Screenshot](https://github.com/nbryant42/xDRCal/blob/main/screenshot.png?raw=true)

I mainly built this as a demo project to test out Direct2D HDR composition in a WinUI 3 project.

## Installation

DIY, for now. You'll need Visual Studio until I get a build set up here.

## Building

You'll need to install Visual Studio and the relevant workloads.

See here: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/get-started/start-here?tabs=vs-2022-17-10

(I believe this document may neglect to mention that you also need the .NET workload, and you will definitely need the Windows 11 SDK 10.0.26100.0 component as well.)

## Usage

Drag one slider to full black, and the other to almost black to see where it's possible to see detail. Do the opposite for the whites.

The bottom slider scales the test pattern by screen area percentage. Most HDR monitors get brighter when they only tasked to show bright whites on a smaller percentage of the screen. Note, however, that the "nits" readout in the app is only based on the signal we are sending to the monitor, and may not match the monitor's true capabilities, especially at 100% of the display area.

Commit message:

point to the release from the readme

README.md, after:

# xDRCal

This is a small .NET application to help check the black or white luminosity clipping points of an SDR or HDR monitor.

![Screenshot](https://github.com/nbryant42/xDRCal/blob/main/screenshot.png?raw=true)

I mainly built this as a demo project to test out Direct2D HDR composition in a WinUI 3 project.

## Installation

I've created a self-contained EXE file, built for Windows 11 24H4 x64 at a minimum.

Download the ZIP from the [release](https://github.com/nbryant42/xDRCal/releases), extract to any directory, and that's it.

## Building

You'll need to install Visual Studio and the relevant workloads.

See here: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/get-started/start-here?tabs=vs-2022-17-10

(I believe this document may neglect to mention that you also need the .NET workload, and you will definitely need the Windows 11 SDK 10.0.26100.0 component as well.)

## Usage

Drag one slider to full black, and the other to almost black to see where it's possible to see detail. Do the opposite for the whites.

The bottom slider scales the test pattern by screen area percentage. Most HDR monitors get brighter when they only tasked to show bright whites on a smaller percentage of the screen. Note, however, that the "nits" readout in the app is only based on the signal we are sending to the monitor, and may not match the monitor's true capabilities, especially at 100% of the display area.
